projects/develop-brainstorm.md, before:

![Double Diamond Develop Phase graphic](/assets/dd-process-develop-1200px@2x.png)

# Brainstorm

Now that you have a How Might We question, it's time to brainstorm some ideas to try to solve for the question. Generating ideas by yourself \(AKA – in a vacuum\) can be fairly difficult if you are new to this process. Even experienced designers benefit from working in groups because typically the array of ideas generated in a discussion is far larger than when working alone. For this step, you will partner up with small groups to brainstorm ideas for each person's project. You will use the free tool included with InvisionApp, to collaboratively make a whiteboard.

The whiteboard has a call and live chat feature, enabling you to discuss ideas verbally as you put them down.

**Note:** If there is a timezone issue, and your group can not find an agreeable meeting time, contact your instructor.

![](/assets/invision-whiteboard-3.jpg)

## Materials and tools

1. [InVisionApp.com](https://www.invisionapp.com/education-signup) \(free education account\) Sign up for an education account
2. Computer with microphone and steady Internet connection

## **Roles and Rules**

### Discussion Rounds

1. **Team Leader:** A Team Leader is randomly assigned, and is responsible for coordinating the group's brainstorm session.
2. There will be one brainstorming round for each person in the group.
3. The Team Leader will send out a link to access the collaborative whiteboard.
4. Each round will focus on a different person's HMW question.
5. **Facilitator Role:** For each round, the person currently in focus for the discussion will be the facilitator of the discussion, and is responsible for downloading their finished whiteboard and uploading the image to the Studio.
   1. The facilitator is responsible for keeping time.
   2. Responsible for downloading their own How Might We...? brainstorm whiteboard image. 
6. Spend about 10-15 minutes per round.

### Brainstorming

1. **Quantity over quality.** The goal is to generate as many ideas as possible.
2. **Defer judgement.** Silly and outlandish ideas are just as useful as, and sometimes more exciting than, sensible ideas.
3. **Be positive.** When building upon others' ideas, use "yes, and also" instead of "but" or "well." These small language nuances change the tone of the discussion to feel more supportive and inclusive.
4. **Focus.** It's easy to derail a brainstorming session. If it happens, refocus on the task at hand.
5. **Simplify.** If an idea takes two sentences to describe, try simplifying it to the core idea using as few words as possible.

## Instructions

### Before the brainstorm session

1. Ensure that you have read the Roles and Rules.
2. Access [InVisionApp.com's whiteboard](https://www.invisionapp.com/blog/the-whiteboard-draw-up-some-teamwork/).
3. **Team Leader:** Collect whiteboard links to share with group \(contact group members prior to the call via email if needed\). Setup a group video, and invite group members. 

### During the brainstorm session

1. Introduce yourselves with the chat tool or the live call feature.
2. Decide on the order you will all go.
3. First Facilitator: Set a timer for 15 minutes. 
4. The Facilitator will write the HMW question in the middle with the text tool.
5. The group will spend up to 15 minutes generating ideas for the HMW question.
   * After 10 minutes: As a group, briefly discuss which ideas you like.
6. The next facilitator sets a timer for 15 minutes.
7. Repeat steps 4-6 until all group members have taken their turn. You are now finished the brainstorming session.
   * Make sure to either screen capture or email the whiteboard image before ending the whiteboard session.
   * Thank each other for their contributions and end the session.Report in
8. Download the PNG image from your whiteboard [https://www.webwhiteboard.com](https://www.webwhiteboard.com) and upload it to the Studio. Follow documentation guidelines.

Commit message:

Creates assets/example-brainstorm.png
Auto commit by GitBook Editor

projects/develop-brainstorm.md, after:

![Double Diamond Develop Phase graphic](/assets/dd-process-develop-1200px@2x.png)

# Brainstorm

Now that you have a How Might We question, it's time to brainstorm some ideas to try to solve for the question. Generating ideas by yourself can be fairly difficult if you are new to this process. Even experienced designers benefit from working in groups because typically the array of ideas generated in a discussion is far larger than when working alone. For this step, you will partner up with small groups to brainstorm ideas for each person's project. You will use the free Dropbox tool called [Paper](https://paper.dropbox.com/), to collaboratively contribute ideas to your group members projects.

**Note:** If there is a timezone issue, and your group can not find an agreeable meeting time, contact your instructor.

View: [Example Paper brainstorm session](https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/Mikes-brainstorm-session-LXePCzDG128wgby37An36)

![Example brainstorm on Dropbox Paper](/assets/example-brainstorm.png)

## Materials and tools

1. Sign up for a free account on [https://paper.dropbox.com/](https://paper.dropbox.com/)
2. Computer with microphone and steady Internet connection

## Roles and Rules

### Discussion Rounds

1. **Team Leader:** A Team Leader is randomly assigned, and is responsible for coordinating the group's brainstorm session.
2. There will be one brainstorming round for each person in the group.
3. The Team Leader will send out a link to access the collaborative whiteboard.
4. Each round will focus on a different person's HMW question.
5. **Facilitator Role:** For each round, the person currently in focus for the discussion will be the facilitator of the discussion, and is responsible for downloading their finished whiteboard and uploading the image to the Studio.
   1. The facilitator is responsible for keeping time.
   2. Responsible for downloading their own How Might We...? brainstorm whiteboard image. 
6. Spend about 10-15 minutes per round.

### Brainstorming

1. **Quantity over quality.** The goal is to generate as many ideas as possible.
2. **Defer judgement.** Silly and outlandish ideas are just as useful as, and sometimes more exciting than, sensible ideas.
3. **Be positive.** When building upon others' ideas, use "yes, and also" instead of "but" or "well." These small language nuances change the tone of the discussion to feel more supportive and inclusive.
4. **Focus.** It's easy to derail a brainstorming session. If it happens, refocus on the task at hand.
5. **Simplify.** If an idea takes two sentences to describe, try simplifying it to the core idea using as few words as possible.

## Instructions

### Before the brainstorm session

1. Ensure that you have read the Roles and Rules.
2. Access [InVisionApp.com's whiteboard](https://www.invisionapp.com/blog/the-whiteboard-draw-up-some-teamwork/).
3. **Team Leader:** Collect whiteboard links to share with group \(contact group members prior to the call via email if needed\). Setup a group video, and invite group members. 

### During the brainstorm session

1. Introduce yourselves with the chat tool or the live call feature.
2. Decide on the order you will all go.
3. First Facilitator: Set a timer for 15 minutes. 
4. The Facilitator will write the HMW question in the middle with the text tool.
5. The group will spend up to 15 minutes generating ideas for the HMW question.
   * After 10 minutes: As a group, briefly discuss which ideas you like.
6. The next facilitator sets a timer for 15 minutes.
7. Repeat steps 4-6 until all group members have taken their turn. You are now finished the brainstorming session.
   * Make sure to either screen capture or email the whiteboard image before ending the whiteboard session.
   * Thank each other for their contributions and end the session.Report in
8. Download the PNG image from your whiteboard [https://www.webwhiteboard.com](https://www.webwhiteboard.com) and upload it to the Studio. Follow documentation guidelines.
