lessons/what-is-design/introduction.md, before:

# Introduction

In this lesson, we introduce you to...
 
**Objectives related to developing Process and Procedural Skills (Designing)**

1) Integrate skills, understandings and creative practices in digital media in exploratory exercises in that draw on content and methods from information sciences and technology, communications and visual arts and design

2) Develop the capabilities necessary to use digital technologies in multimedia projects through exploration, expression and communication that engage a multiplicity of ideas, forms, actions, and settings;

3) Gather and analyze information from research sources to identify and apply relevant content that can aid concept development improve design processes and products
 
**Objectives related to developing Critical Skills (Critiquing)**

4) Adapt an interdisciplinary vocabulary of terms, methods and processes to review applying information and critique ideas in individual contexts and collaborative settings

5) Demonstrate communication skills by creating and presenting ideas, concepts and designs in written, verbal and visual forms;

6) Implement new ideas and develop a diverse array of options for problem solving in response to critical review and the iterative design process for improving work
 
**Objectives related to developing Attitudes and Awareness (Assessing context)**

7) Recognize how influences, constraints, personal interests, ethics, and resources (eg open source), impact on design decisions and creative options.

Commit message:

Creates assets/design-and-truth-book@2x.jpg
Auto commit by GitBook Editor

lessons/what-is-design/introduction.md, after:

# Introduction

In this lesson, you will learn about how design thinking, systems thinking, and critical thinking play important roles in the process of design and the resulting impacts.

You will also begin reading the book, _Design and Truth_, by Robert Grudin. This book talks about philisophy, ethics,

![Photo of book, Design and Truth by Robert Grudin](/assets/design-and-truth-book@2x.jpg)

## Learning objectives
 
**Objectives related to developing Process and Procedural Skills (Designing)**

1) Integrate skills, understandings and creative practices in digital media in exploratory exercises in that draw on content and methods from information sciences and technology, communications and visual arts and design

2) Develop the capabilities necessary to use digital technologies in multimedia projects through exploration, expression and communication that engage a multiplicity of ideas, forms, actions, and settings;

3) Gather and analyze information from research sources to identify and apply relevant content that can aid concept development improve design processes and products
 
**Objectives related to developing Critical Skills (Critiquing)**

4) Adapt an interdisciplinary vocabulary of terms, methods and processes to review applying information and critique ideas in individual contexts and collaborative settings

5) Demonstrate communication skills by creating and presenting ideas, concepts and designs in written, verbal and visual forms;

6) Implement new ideas and develop a diverse array of options for problem solving in response to critical review and the iterative design process for improving work
 
**Objectives related to developing Attitudes and Awareness (Assessing context)**

7) Recognize how influences, constraints, personal interests, ethics, and resources (eg open source), impact on design decisions and creative options.
