writing_guidelines.md, before:

# Writing Guidelines

## Drafts

When writing a draft, composition structure, grammar, and spelling are the least important. While it is always good to strive for perfection, that should be relegated to the editing phase of writing. A good drafting session means that you were able to get as many of your ideas out as rapidly as possible, even if they are fragments or tangents. Natural language is fine in this stage, and even desired for personal stories. When providing feedback on drafts, try not to nitpick on spelling and grammar, but rather the content, insights, and direction of the concepts.

## Second drafts

...

## Final deliverables

Typically, a final deliverable will be evaluated according to all possible metrics. Ensure that you leave time for editing, this will help you catch embarrassing spelling and grammar errors. You should always ask someone to give you feedback on your writing and to proofread before you submit. This will help you communicate your ideas free from the distraction of careless mistakes.

Commit message:

Track 5 files into repository.
- modified introduction/measuring_success.md
- modified SUMMARY.md
- modified topics/activism.md
- untracked topics/positive-pyschology.md
- modified writing_guidelines.md

Auto commit by GitBook Editor

writing_guidelines.md, after:

# Writing Guidelines

> Don't make the reader do the thinking you failed to do.

To do:

1. Critical distance
2. Writing context

## Drafts

When writing a draft, composition structure, grammar, and spelling are the least important. While it is always good to strive for perfection, that should be relegated to the editing phase of writing. A good drafting session means that you were able to get as many of your ideas out as rapidly as possible, even if they are fragments or tangents. Natural language is fine in this stage, and even desired for personal stories. When providing feedback on drafts, try not to nitpick on spelling and grammar, but rather the content, insights, and direction of the concepts.

## Second drafts

...

## Final deliverables

Typically, a final deliverable will be evaluated according to all possible metrics. Ensure that you leave time for editing, this will help you catch embarrassing spelling and grammar errors. You should always ask someone to give you feedback on your writing and to proofread before you submit. This will help you communicate your ideas free from the distraction of careless mistakes.
