topics/what_is_design.md, before:

![](/assets/what-is-design@2x.jpg)

# What is Design?

## Introduction

From the moment you wake up, you are interacting with design. Everything in the home, place of work, and journey to and from has been influenced by a designer of some kind. The degree of care for each designed artifact or system can vary dramatically, causing you to experience delight, dismay, and everything in between. As design moved out of the studio and into the boardroom, the design field has grown larger in scope, and has become a tool for civic engagement and change. For this reason, a variety of ideas about what design is, how you do it, and what makes it good have emerged. I've located a few descriptions for us to compare.

In the book, _Design for the Real World, Human Ecology and Social Change_, Victor Papanek writes a rather broad definition of design: "Design is the conscious and intuitive effort to impose meaningful order." We get another, even more broad definition from Robert Grudin's book, \_Design and Truth: "\_The primary function of design is to shape and channel energy."

I think we can go even broader. I will now attempt to define the broadest definitions of design possible with the English language. At the broadest sense of _design as a verb_, design is the act of creating or making a **choice**. In the broadest sense of _design as a noun_, design is the **result** of a choice or series of choices.

All of these definitions are better understood after you have been doing design for a long time, and are perhaps less useful when trying to learn how to do it. Therefore, for the purposes of teaching a person how to do design, we can consider this the working definition–**design is the process that helps a person or group create, select, modify, and organize elements to satisfy an intended outcome**. When paired with a given field of study, we can narrow the kinds of choices a designer will have to make, and subsequently better understand the scope of their thinking. As helpful as definitions are, the downside is that they begin to silo the field. The act of siloing study into fields is a kind of violence towards design – forcing designers to ignore the forces and systems with which it aught to be concerned. With that warning out of the way, let's take a look at some lists that might give us some insight to what good design is.

## Good design in list form

Famed industrial designer, Dieter Rams, has written a rather popular list of what makes for good product design. It follows:

1. Good design is innovative
2. Good design makes a product useful
3. Good design is aesthetic
4. Good design makes a product understandable
5. Good design is unobtrusive
6. Good design is honest
7. Good design is long lasting
8. Good design is thorough down to the last detail
9. Good design is environmentally friendly
10. Good design is as little design as possible

On page 29 in _Design and Truth_, Robert Grudin assembles a slightly longer list:

1. Good design is in accord with nature and human nature
2. Good design is in harmony with its immediate surroundings
3. Good design converses with contingent technologies
4. Good design helps to develop skill and/or imparts knowledge
5. Good design extends a user's sensibilities and freedom
6. Good design projects simplicity
7. Good design minimizes difficulties and dangers
8. Good design conveys a sense of beauty
9. Good design gives pleasure to use
10. Good design is not unreasonably expensive
11. Good design is sustainable
12. Good design allows a user to perform optimally in engaging reality
13. Good design can be delivered, installed, and repaired conveniently

Unfortunately, these lists do little to explain the process behind good design work. Design studio, Intrastructures, has written a list that explains what design means to them, and the approaches that drive their design process. From their website [1], "We define design as...

1. **Dissecting ubiquity. **Remaining curious to the obvious
2. **Managing complexity. **Mapping our contemporary infrastructure in order to reveal opportunities
3. **Introducing proposition. **Changing from within rather than shouting from the outside
4. **Abandoning the individual. **Sharing our mind, sketchbooks and hard drives
5. **Spreading enthusiasm. **Not fearing radical optimism
6. **Bridging disciplines. **Widening the scope of design by integrating complementary perspectives
7. **Embracing diversity. **Accepting different solutions in order to distill wisdom from their shared mindset
8. **Materializing opportunity. **Condensing wild ideas into applicable products, tools and models
9. **Responding to challenge. **Acting by both thinking and doing"

These lists were not meant to be hard rules that apply to everything, but they can be helpful guidelines and mission statements when making or evaluating design.

## Citations

1. [http://www.intrastructures.net/Intrastructures/About\_-\_how\_we\_define\_design..html](http://www.intrastructures.net/Intrastructures/About_-_how_we_define_design..html)

Commit message:

Creates assets/BraunRT20Radio@2x.jpg
Auto commit by GitBook Editor

topics/what_is_design.md, after:

![](/assets/what-is-design@2x.jpg)

# What is Design?

## Introduction

From the moment you wake up, you are interacting with design. Everything in the home, place of work, and journey to and from has been influenced by a designer of some kind. The degree of care for each designed artifact or system can vary dramatically, causing you to experience delight, dismay, and everything in between. As design moved out of the studio and into the boardroom, the design field has grown larger in scope, and has become a tool for civic engagement and change. For this reason, a variety of ideas about what design is, how you do it, and what makes it good have emerged. I've located a few descriptions for us to compare.

In the book, _Design for the Real World, Human Ecology and Social Change_, Victor Papanek writes a rather broad definition of design: "Design is the conscious and intuitive effort to impose meaningful order." We get another, even more broad definition from Robert Grudin's book, \_Design and Truth: "\_The primary function of design is to shape and channel energy."

I think we can go even broader. I will now attempt to define the broadest definitions of design possible with the English language. At the broadest sense of _design as a verb_, design is the act of creating or making a **choice**. In the broadest sense of _design as a noun_, design is the **result** of a choice or series of choices.

All of these definitions are better understood after you have been doing design for a long time, and are perhaps less useful when trying to learn how to do it. Therefore, for the purposes of teaching a person how to do design, we can consider this the working definition–**design is the process that helps a person or group create, select, modify, and organize elements to satisfy an intended outcome**. When paired with a given field of study, we can narrow the kinds of choices a designer will have to make, and subsequently better understand the scope of their thinking. As helpful as definitions are, the downside is that they begin to silo the field. The act of siloing study into fields is a kind of violence towards design – forcing designers to ignore the forces and systems with which it aught to be concerned. With that warning out of the way, let's take a look at some lists that might give us some insight to what good design is.

## Good design in list form

Famed industrial designer, Dieter Rams, has written a rather popular list of what makes for good product design. It follows:

1. Good design is innovative
2. Good design makes a product useful
3. Good design is aesthetic
4. Good design makes a product understandable
5. Good design is unobtrusive
6. Good design is honest
7. Good design is long lasting
8. Good design is thorough down to the last detail
9. Good design is environmentally friendly
10. Good design is as little design as possible

![](/assets/BraunRT20Radio@2x.jpg)
Braun RT 20 Radio designed by Dieter Rams in 1961. Image by Nick Wade.


On page 29 in _Design and Truth_, Robert Grudin assembles a slightly longer list:

1. Good design is in accord with nature and human nature
2. Good design is in harmony with its immediate surroundings
3. Good design converses with contingent technologies
4. Good design helps to develop skill and/or imparts knowledge
5. Good design extends a user's sensibilities and freedom
6. Good design projects simplicity
7. Good design minimizes difficulties and dangers
8. Good design conveys a sense of beauty
9. Good design gives pleasure to use
10. Good design is not unreasonably expensive
11. Good design is sustainable
12. Good design allows a user to perform optimally in engaging reality
13. Good design can be delivered, installed, and repaired conveniently

Unfortunately, these lists do little to explain the process behind good design work. Design studio, Intrastructures, has written a list that explains what design means to them, and the approaches that drive their design process. From their website [1], "We define design as...

1. **Dissecting ubiquity. **Remaining curious to the obvious
2. **Managing complexity. **Mapping our contemporary infrastructure in order to reveal opportunities
3. **Introducing proposition. **Changing from within rather than shouting from the outside
4. **Abandoning the individual. **Sharing our mind, sketchbooks and hard drives
5. **Spreading enthusiasm. **Not fearing radical optimism
6. **Bridging disciplines. **Widening the scope of design by integrating complementary perspectives
7. **Embracing diversity. **Accepting different solutions in order to distill wisdom from their shared mindset
8. **Materializing opportunity. **Condensing wild ideas into applicable products, tools and models
9. **Responding to challenge. **Acting by both thinking and doing"

These lists were not meant to be hard rules that apply to everything, but they can be helpful guidelines and mission statements when making or evaluating design.

## Citations

1. Wade, Nick. Braun RT 40 Radio by Dieter Rams. https://www.flickr.com/photos/nickwade/4123875041
2. [http://www.intrastructures.net/Intrastructures/About\_-\_how\_we\_define\_design..html](http://www.intrastructures.net/Intrastructures/About_-_how_we_define_design..html)
